In the last lectures, we finally got our own visual which is connected to our own data,
really awesome but we can improve our code. It is fine for this visual but as it grows in complexity,
it can be tough to handle it all and it is tough for Typescript to keep track of which type we're using
where, it is a good practice to create your own interfaces
and I'll do this in my modules here at the very top,
I want to create a couple of interfaces, two to be precise.
We do this with the interface keyword and the first one is for my bar chart, the view model and that
is generally a good practice. For the data you're working with, create a view model or for the chart
you are creating I should say, define which input values does your chart need.
So here in my interface, what I need and this is simply created like a class,
I want to have data points in my view model and these data points should be of type of another interface
I have yet to create,
so let's leave it out for now.
I also want to have a maximum data field, number and you will recognize this pattern. Bar chart view model,
the interface we created with data points and data.max,
that's the type we use here for data info for example, so we can now assign our own interface as a type
and that is one of the big advantages of interface,
now our application is more safe and it's clearer. Now we clearly define that this is how data info should
look like and no other way. We also can define that we will return exactly that in the end here,
we return an object with data points and data.max.
So right at the function definition after defining the arguments, we can define the return type and that
is just an object of this,
well schema here.
So that's the first part,
the data we're working with, we can also define this down here in the update method where I get the
transform data, it is a type bar chart view model
therefore. I also want to create another interface though, this interface is for the individual data
point. I'll name it bar chart data point,
this also is an interface
and here, we'll have a value,
this will be of type primitive value, that's a type provided by Power BI which means it's like a
number, something like that, a simple value, no complex value.
I also want to have a category, that will be a string and we should have semi-colons here, not commas,
so make sure to have semi-colons here. For data points, the type will now be bar chart data point but
an array of these,
so like that. This is now my individual data point I want to use
and now with that, we get more consistency in our set up and it's clearer and easier to understand and
we make sure that we don't make any silly mistakes here. With our bar chart data point interface set
up, we can go down and we don't hit it,
our data points should be of type bar chart data point array and that is what we assign here, objects
with category and value, that fits our definition up here
and that is exactly the idea behind all of that.
We know where we return,
we know what we work with. With that in place,
why don't we move on and add some color to our bar chart because that black,
it's not that beautiful.